------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Critiques are numbered by reviewer, and start with #2, as there were no critiques from reviewer #1.

Categories are noted in parentheses, e.g., (TYPO). Resolutions are noted in square brackets, e.g., [FIXED].

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2a. (TYPO) “Lastly, critics have claime that AdNauseam harms independent content producers who can no longer support their sites.”  [FIXED]

2b. (TYPO) “For AdNauseam, we have decided on default setting that maximize user protection.” [FIXED]

2c. (SUGGESTION) "Section III, Part A the single Subsection 'Point 1' would maybe deserve an extension and transformation into a Part B in its own right." [PENDING]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3a. (CLARIFICATION) "It wasn't clear to me why there were graphs regarding memory footprint or page-load time, for example -- those don't seem reflected in the design goals set out at the beginning."  [FIXED: Usability goals, including speed, and memory-use are now included in 'Design Goals' section.]

3b. (CLARIFICATION) "The Conclusion and the recounting of debates about removal from the Chrome store are very interesting, but seem less connected to the analysis of the engineering approach we expect from the abstract of the paper." [IGNORED: This discussion relates directly to distribution concerns which are a) relevant to privacy engineering, and b) mentioned in our abstract & roadmap, and c) justified at the start of subsection 'Architecture'-> 'Distribution']

3c. (CLARIFICATION) "I'm not entirely clear on how protection from malware is being achieved by automated clicking on ad" [PENDING: This is certainly addressed, but perhaps can be clarified]

3d. (CLARIFICATION) "[I'm not entirely clear how] obfuscation or protest are being achieved when headers are removed. Is there any reason to think that ad clicks aren't being ignored when there is no User-Agent or Referer header?"
[FIXED: this section was indeed distracting and has been removed from the final draft.]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4a. (SUBSTANTIVE) [In terms of protection from data aggregation and profiling, blocking seems to be a better choice than obfuscation.] If one compares adnauseam with other obfuscation tools, there is a key difference in the scenarios/services for which these tools were designed, e.g., location based services (LBS) or web search. People are interested in using LBS and web search, whereas it is unclear to what extent people are interested in getting ads and clicking on them. In fact, the authors acknowledge that most users use adnauseam simply as an adblocker. So what is the added value of clicking on ads when users would rather block all advertising? [PARTIALLY-ADDRESSED in 2nd paragraph of 'Legitimacy Analysis'][PENDING: HELEN]

4b. (SUBSTANTIVE) I fail to see how the use of obfuscation is a better technique than blocking [for expression]. Expressing discontent through blocking is as blunt and direct as generating fake clicks, specially if we consider that the advertisers may not be aware of the presence of those fake clicks. If advertisers do not know about adnauseam, then tracking practices continue as usual (with uncertain effects on users as mentioned above). If they know, they have incentives to simply block or discard fake clicks and, in this sense, indistinguishability is key. If fake clicks can be easily distinguished, then advertisers can continue to do business as usual. So again, blocking seems to me a better design choice in terms of expression.  [PARTIALLY-ADDRESSED in 2nd paragraph of 'Legitimacy Analysis'][PENDING: HELEN]

4c. (SUBSTANTIVE) The paper states that "Rather than promoting the conception of privacy as concealment Adnauseam provides a means for users to express, in plain sight, their dissent" and "since protest frequently involves being vocal, AdNauseam's core design at times conflicts with privacy conceptions based on secrecy and concealment". These statements are quite misleading. AdNauseam's use of obfuscation is very much about secrecy and concealment: it tries to hide what the actual clicks of the user are by laying a cloak of fake clicks over them. What adnauseam does not try to conceal and in fact seeks to be very vocal about is the use or presence of the tool itself (for which hiding would require steganographic properties). However, the privacy problem at hand relates to the profile that can be built from the users' clicks on ads, not to the use of the tool. Therefore, adnauseam does address the privacy problem with secrecy and concealment. My question is: would the authors state the same about email encryption? Sending encrypted emails hides the content of the message to an eavesdropper. However, it is very "vocal" about the fact that that hiding is taking place, as ciphertext can be easily distinguished from plaintext. My point is that the privacy problem is about hiding the content of the email/the user's real clicks, not about hiding that the user is sending an encrypted email/generating fake clicks.  [PENDING: HELEN]

4d. (SUBSTANTIVE) the paper states that "a tool that is perfectly protective - for which it is never possible to filter noise from data - will often be functionally invisible to an adversary. If an adversary is literally unaware of injected noise [...]". This is not true and very misleading... The dichotomy between expression and protection is, at least in this context, false. [FIXED: this section was indeed confusing/poorly-written and has been fixed. See Section 'Expression, Indistinguishability and Detectability']

4e. (SUBSTANTIVE) "with respect to adnauseam's goal of "facilitate real-time understanding of the advertising system at work", "enhance the user-experience with greater insight into the online advertising landscape" and "generate insight into the larger picture beyond momentary interactions". I see major problems with all these goals. First of all, they are very vague. What are adnauseam users supposed to "understand" exactly? What does "greater insight into the online advertising landscape" mean? And "insight into the larger picture"? Unclear to me what larger picture the authors refer to. This is not properly specified in the paper. Secondly, there is no evaluation of how these goals are met. Do users gain "understanding of the advertising system at work"? Unclear to me. Users are indeed shown information about the ads captured by adnauseam. However, I do not know if this enables the users' understanding of whatever adnauseam wants them to understand. I fear that there is this underlying assumption that because users are shown "something" they will be able (and willing) to understand something. Again, without a proper definition of what the goals are and a proper evaluation, this sounds rather dodgy to me. [FIXED: we have bracketed discussion of 'understanding' and marked it as beyond the scope of this paper. See Section: 'Feature Mapping']

4f. (TYPO) Section I.D: "...on multiple sites *sites..." (double "sites"). [FIXED]

4g. (TYPO) Section I.E: "critics have *claim that" (missing "d" in claimed). [FIXED]

4h. (TYPO) Section II.A, first paragraph: grammar mismatch "Such requests [...] *is [...] *it [...]" (should be "are", "they"). [FIXED]

4i. (TYPO) Section II.E, last paragraph: "In this instance it * a counter-surveillance [...]". (Missing "is"). [FIXED]
